blog: Release Candidate article (#2062)
nuxt/nuxtjs.org: content/en/announcements/6.nuxt3-rc.md

Furthermore, you can run the `npx nuxi typecheck` command to manually check your types within your Nuxt application, or even enable build or development type-checking if you prefer.

Read more about [TypeScript in Nuxt 3](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/concepts/typescript).

## Vite & Webpack

We decided to make [Vite](https://vitejs.dev) the default bundler for Nuxt apps. We’re big fans of the work done by [Evan You](https://twitter.com/youyuxi) with Vue 3 and after seeing the work done by the fabulous [Vite community](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/graphs/contributors), it was an easy choice to bet on it.

Equally, keeping [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org) support is important for us. It is a mature build tool and can ease the migration for Nuxt 2 projects.

This means Nuxt 3 officially supports both Vite and Webpack.

To use Webpack 5, enable it in your Nuxt config, and install **@nuxt/webpack-builder**:

```ts
import { defineNuxtConfig } from 'nuxt'

export default defineNuxtConfig({
  builder: 'webpack' // default: 'vite'
})
```

> As part of our deep integration with both Vite and Webpack, we also created [unplugin](https://github.com/unjs/unplugin): a unified plugin system for build tools, which enables writing universal plugins that work in Rollup, Vite and Webpack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of our deep integration with both Vite and Webpack, we also created [unjs/unplugin](https://github.com/unjs/unplugin): a unified plugin system for build tools, which enables writing universal plugins that work in Rollup, Vite and Webpack.
```

We've laid the foundation for making Nuxt a **builder agnostic framework** and are preparing it for JavaScript’s perpetually evolving ecosystem.

A further note on performance: we are pushing forward [vite-node](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-node) and [Webpack lazyCompilation](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/experiments/#experimentslazycompilation), bringing on-demand bundling for the server bundle of your Nuxt application: No matter how big your application becomes, Nuxt will always start in a few seconds.

## Nitro & UnJS

> One of the major features of Nuxt 3 is its new server engine [UnJS/Nitro](https://nitro.unjs.io/) making Nuxt a powerful full stack and provider-agnostic framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the major features of Nuxt 3 is its new server engine [unjs/nitro](https://nitro.unjs.io/) making Nuxt a powerful full stack and provider-agnostic framework.
```

---
template: post

> title: Annoucing Nuxt 3 Release Candidate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Announcing Nuxt 3 Release Candidate
```

description: "Nuxt 3 beta was announced on October 12, 2021 after 16 months of work, introducing a new foundation based on Vue 3, Vite and Nitro. Six months later, we are happy to announce the first release candidate of Nuxt 3, code named “Mount Hope“ 🚀"
imgUrl: blog/nuxt3-rc/main.png
date: 2022-04-20
authors:
  - name: Sébastien Chopin
    avatarUrl: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1042510623962275840/1Iw_Mvud_400x400.jpg
    link: https://twitter.com/atinux
  - name: Pooya Parsa
    avatarUrl: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1268227177612541952/9-fujxqt_400x400.jpg
    link: https://twitter.com/_pi0_
  - name: Daniel Roe
    avatarUrl: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1326211963614007302/UJyvtK2f_400x400.jpg
    link: https://twitter.com/danielcroe
  - name: Alexandre Chopin
    avatarUrl: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1255027239458091009/qMp_q8vy_400x400.jpg
    link: https://twitter.com/IamNuxt
  - name: Clement Ollivier
    avatarUrl: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1370286658432724996/ZMSDzzIi_400x400.jpg
    link: https://twitter.com/clemcodes
tags:
  - framework
  - release
category: Release
---

> > 💡 The Release candidate series are beta versions with the potential to be a stable version. This means that no major breaking changes are expected until the stable release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> 💡 Release Candidates are beta versions that have the potential to be released as stable. This means that no major breaking changes are expected until the stable release.
```

> Nuxt 3 beta was [announced on October 12, 2021](https://nuxtjs.org/announcements/nuxt3-beta) after 16 months of work, introducing a new foundation based on [Vue 3](https://vuejs.org/), [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) and [Nitro](https://nitro.unjs.io).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Nuxt 3 Beta was [announced on October 12, 2021](https://nuxtjs.org/announcements/nuxt3-beta) after 16 months of work, with a new foundation based on [Vue 3](https://vuejs.org/), [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) and [Nitro](https://nitro.unjs.io).
```

> Today, 6 months later, we are happy to announce the first release candidate of Nuxt 3, code named “Mount Hope“ 🚀

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, six months later, we are happy to announce the first release candidate for Nuxt 3, code named “Mount Hope“ 🚀
```

Since the beta, we’ve merged [1000+ pull requests](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Amerged+created%3A%3E%3D2021-10-12+), closed [800+ issues](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+sort%3Aupdated-desc+created%3A%3E%3D2021-10-12+), made [2000+ commits](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/commits/main) and seen [3600+ open source repositories](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/network/dependents?package_id=UGFja2FnZS0yMDg1MjMzODUx) using Nuxt.

> It’s not just the Nuxt core team; more than [160+ contributors](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/graphs/contributors) have been helping us.
> 
> Lastly, we are grateful for seeing amazing adoption by our beta testers: [5000+ stars](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/stargazers) and [340k+ downloads](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=nuxt3) in 6 months 💚

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It’s not just the Nuxt core team; more than [160+ contributors](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/graphs/contributors) have been helping us. And we are grateful to see amazing adoption by our beta testers: [5000+ stars](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/stargazers) and [340k+ downloads](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=nuxt3) in 6 months 💚
```

> You can check the [release notes](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/releases) for migrating from previous versions of Nuxt 3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check the [release notes](https://github.com/nuxt/framework/releases) if you are migrating from a previous version of Nuxt 3.
```

# A new foundation

## Vue 3 & TypeScript

Vue 3 has been the [new default for 3 months](https://blog.vuejs.org/posts/vue-3-as-the-new-default.html), bringing better performance, the composition API and TypeScript support. Nuxt 3 builds on these improvements to provide a great Vue 3 experience with first-class SSR support.

Since Nuxt 3 has been rewritten in TypeScript, it is fully typed and provides helpful shortcuts to ensure you have access to accurate type information when you are coding.

On top of this, Nuxt will automatically generate a TS config (`.nuxt/tsconfig.json`) and a global types file (`.nuxt/nuxt.d.ts`) for you to **get a full TypeScript experience with zero configuration**.

Furthermore, you can run the `npx nuxi typecheck` command to manually check your types within your Nuxt application, or even enable build or development type-checking if you prefer.

> Read more in the [TypeScript concept](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/concepts/typescript) of Nuxt 3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read more about [TypeScript in Nuxt 3](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/concepts/typescript).
```

## Vite & Webpack

We decided to make [Vite](https://vitejs.dev) the default bundler for Nuxt apps. We’re big fans of the work done by [Evan You](https://twitter.com/youyuxi) with Vue 3 and after seeing the work done by the fabulous [Vite community](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/graphs/contributors), it was an easy choice to bet on it.

Equally, keeping [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org) support is important for us. It is a mature build tool and can ease the migration for Nuxt 2 projects.

This means Nuxt 3 officially supports both Vite and Webpack.

To use Webpack 5, enable it in your Nuxt config, and install **@nuxt/webpack-builder**:

```ts
import { defineNuxtConfig } from 'nuxt'

export default defineNuxtConfig({
  builder: 'webpack' // default: 'vite'
})
```

As part of our deep integration with both Vite and Webpack, we also created [unplugin](https://github.com/unjs/unplugin): a unified plugin system for build tools, which enables writing universal plugins that work in Rollup, Vite and Webpack.

> We laid the foundation for making Nuxt a **builder agnostic framework** and preparing it for JavaScript’s perpetually evolving ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've laid the foundation for making Nuxt a **builder agnostic framework** and are preparing it for JavaScript’s perpetually evolving ecosystem.
```

> A note on Vite, we are pushing forward [vite-node](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-node) and [Webpack lazyCompilation](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/experiments/#experimentslazycompilation), bringing on-demand bundling for the server bundle of your Nuxt application: No matter how big your application becomes, Nuxt will always start in a few seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A further note on performance: we are pushing forward [vite-node](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-node) and [Webpack lazyCompilation](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/experiments/#experimentslazycompilation), bringing on-demand bundling for the server bundle of your Nuxt application: No matter how big your application becomes, Nuxt will always start in a few seconds.
```

## Nitro & UnJS

One of the major features of Nuxt 3 is its new server engine [UnJS/Nitro](https://nitro.unjs.io/) making Nuxt a powerful full stack and provider-agnostic framework.

### Why Nitro?

> First pain point in Nuxt 2 was the lack of server routes, we had [serverMiddleware](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/configuration-glossary/configuration-servermiddleware) but the developer experience was not great. It lacked alias support and was unstable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first pain point in Nuxt 2 was a lack of robust server integration. We had [serverMiddleware](https://nuxtjs.org/docs/configuration-glossary/configuration-servermiddleware) but the developer experience was not great. It lacked alias support and was unstable.
```

> Secondly, the production server was not optimized to work in a lambda environment, boot time was slow and install size was big.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Secondly, the production server was not optimized to work in a lambda environment; boot time was slow and install size was big.
```

Nitro takes Nuxt to another level with multiple features:

- Hot module replacement for the [server/ directory](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/features/server-routes)
- Server routes with file system similar as the pages/ directory
- Portable and compact deployments without node\_modules dependency
- Route caching and static pre-rendering with built-in crawler
- Code-splitting and async chunk loading for fast server startup time
- [And much more…](https://nitro.unjs.io/)

> **This means that Nuxt 3 and everything you use in your project are now [devDependencies](https://nodejs.dev/learn/npm-dependencies-and-devdependencies)**, Nitro will take care of code-splitting and bundling everything into a portable and compact `.output` directory ready to be deployed on [any hosting providers](https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**This means that Nuxt 3 and everything you use in your project are now [devDependencies](https://nodejs.dev/learn/npm-dependencies-and-devdependencies)**. Nitro will take care of code-splitting and bundling everything into a portable and compact `.output` directory ready to be deployed to [any hosting provider](https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/).
```

> **This means that Nuxt 3 and everything you use in your project are now [devDependencies**](https://nodejs.dev/learn/npm-dependencies-and-devdependencies)**, Nitro will take care of code-splitting and bundling everything into a portable and compact `.output` directory ready to be deployed on [any hosting providers](https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**This means that Nuxt 3 and everything you use in your project are now [devDependencies](https://nodejs.dev/learn/npm-dependencies-and-devdependencies)**, Nitro will take care of code-splitting and bundling everything into a portable and compact `.output` directory ready to be deployed on [any hosting providers](https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/).
```

> Here is a [small video](https://twitter.com/Atinux/status/1506597209537658885) about how it looks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a [small video](https://twitter.com/Atinux/status/1506597209537658885) showing what it looks like.
```

::video-player
---
sources:
- src: https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1650468764/nuxt3-output_iflx7y.webm
  type: video/webm
- src: https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1650468764/nuxt3-output_iflx7y.mp4
  type: video/mp4
- src: https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1650468764/nuxt3-output_iflx7y.ogv
  type: video/ogg
poster: https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1650468764/nuxt3-output_iflx7y.jpg
---
::

### Unified JavaScript Tools

> In 2018, we started creating reusable and framework agnostic JavaScript libraries such as [unjs/consola](https://github.com/unjs/consola) and [unjs/ipx](https://github.com/unjs/ipx). These libraries are small, well-tested, and compatible with each other to benefit the entire JS ecosystem. Today we have a bigger collection of them in a new GitHub organization called[ ](https://github.com/unjs)[UnJS](https://github.com/unjs). This organization is made for offering a set of [ESM friendly](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/going-further/esm) JavaScript tools suitable for running in any JavaScript environment including Node.js, Deno, Browsers and Workers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In 2018, we started creating reusable and framework-agnostic JavaScript libraries such as [unjs/consola](https://github.com/unjs/consola) and [unjs/ipx](https://github.com/unjs/ipx). These libraries are small, well-tested, and compatible with each other to benefit the entire JS ecosystem. Today we have a bigger collection of them in a new GitHub organization called [UnJS](https://github.com/unjs). This organization is made for offering a set of [ESM friendly](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/going-further/esm) JavaScript tools suitable for running in any JavaScript environment including Node.js, Deno, Browsers and Workers.
```

By working on this foundation for over 4 years, we are progressively making Nuxt capable of running everywhere and exploring ideas beyond our imagination! 

> Checkout <https://github.com/unjs> to discover all the packages powering Nuxt 3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check out <https://github.com/unjs> to discover all the packages powering Nuxt 3.
```

# Powerful features

## File System Automation

### Pages

> It all started with the pages directory: every file is mapped to a route. We were the first in the frontend framework ecosystem to support dynamic and nested routes thanks to the amazing work done by the Vue team on [vue-router](https://router.vuejs.org/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It all started with the pages directory: every file is mapped to a route. We were the first in the frontend framework ecosystem to support dynamic and nested routes, thanks to the amazing work done by the Vue team on [vue-router](https://router.vuejs.org/).
```

> The [pages directory](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/pages) remains with an improved syntax for [dynamic routes](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/pages#dynamic-routes), allowing to have multiple parameters in a single route. Moreover, the pages directory is optional! You can start your project with only an [app.vue](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/app) file and Nuxt will use a minimal universal router instead for an optimized bundle size (saving 28kB, 21% tinier out of the box).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [pages directory](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/pages) remains, featuring an improved syntax for [dynamic routes](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/pages#dynamic-routes) that allows multiple parameters in a single route. Moreover, the pages directory is optional! You can start your project with only an [app.vue](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/app) file and Nuxt will use a minimal universal router instead for an optimized bundle size (saving 28kB, 21% tinier out of the box).
```

Take a look at the [migration guide for pages](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/migration/pages-and-layouts#pages) for more details.

### Plugins

Every file in the [plugins directory](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/plugins) will be automatically imported and run before creating the main component ([app.vue](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/app)).

### Components

> The [components directory](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/components) is another piece of art, every component inside will be available in your templates, no imports required. Nuxt will then analyze your code to only include the components used in the final bundle, bringing both great developer experience and performance for production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [components directory](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/components) is another piece of art; every component inside will be available in your templates, no imports required. Nuxt will then analyze your code, only including the components you use in the final bundle, bringing both great developer experience and performance for production.
```

### Composables

> Thanks to Vue 3 and the Composition API, we created a new [composables directory](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/composables) to automatically import your Vue composables into your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanks to Vue 3 and the Composition API, we've created a new [composables directory](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/composables) to automatically import your Vue composables into your application.
```
